## Guide to Effective Prompting

The potential of LLMs and their responses are huge, and so it is imperative to be specific in your prompts when pursuing a certain result. Quality responses require curated instructions, so we will discuss what factors to consider.

Firstly, the most visual indicator is structure. It is already common for LLMs to breakdown complex tasks into smaller steps, as it helps both the AI reason the problem systematically, as well as improved understanding for the AI user (especially for coding and math). Answer format can be completely changed if we want our answer in a table, graph or supplemented with images/emojis. Although, it will not always achieve this without prompting, so we can be more specific: Do we want chronological steps? A table/graph? Include images or equations? We can also specify writing structure, such as how many paragraphs, word count or sentence structure. Exceptional structure gives clarity for the user in responses, but we must also give clarity in our prompts to achieve the best results.

The next principle is clarity. Using frameworks and meta-prompting like, ‘What? How? Why?’ guides users to remove ambiguity from prompts, gives purposeful instructions, and provides context to maintain relevant responses. Also, remember to clearly state what information you want the AI to work with, as well as what the objective is.

Additionally, role and tone specification can be often forgotten, but transforms responses. Telling the AI who to ‘act’ as will make answers more appropriate and useful, instead of just being an information delivering system. For example, do you want the response to be from a student with a masters degree level of knowledge or high school? Giving a job title is a good place to start, yet you should also state the experience level of this theoretical person. Now that we have given the AI their role, you should also specify yours/reader’s. This will curate the answer to your understanding. Tone can be altered through explaining the type of language to use, and can give a completely different feel to the way it is read.

Finally, after your first response, it is critical to ask further questions, add more/less constraints and make refinements. It is rare that it will be perfect on the first attempt, so additional iterations are needed. This is the last step in the prompt guide, but this does not mean you need to squeeze all your alterations into a single request. Here you will customise what changes to make (including any of the factors mentioned earlier) or if you want a completely different response. Making multiple small changes will help visualise your changes, and slowly near your goal answer. If you are straying away, you can also refer to earlier responses and refine from there.

To summarise, we need clarity using meta-prompting, specific structure, consider who the AI should act as, who the reader is, tone of response, and to refine responses appropriately.
